# The Space Between
###Scriping and Storytelling in Level Design

## Introduction
I had the idea for this project after watching through a good amount of Hong Kong film director Wong Kar Wai's filmography, having wanted to make a project centred around liminal spaces for quite some time. Wong Kar Wai's films are obsessed with liminality; often filled with heartbroken characters who are in transitory periods of their lives, and as someone who was in a transitory period of my own at the time, I wanted to reflect on my own experiences by building a game centred around this idea. The game focuses around the separation of desire and love, and would feature a heartbroken character as they traverse their memories - sometimes abstract, sometimes nostalgic - while the narrative focuses around romantic desire, I wanted the overall themes to be broader, and wanted to avoid making it autobiographical - the suspension of disbelief in many of Wong Kar Wai's films helps allow the themes to hit harder, after all. 

## Design
### Pre-production, narrative and direction
I spent a while drawing from my own experiences and those of my friends, as well as plotting out the general character arc, tone and themes. I also thought about Wong Kar Wai's creative vision and how it could translate to both film and games, and any changes I would need to make - for instance, due to the interactive nature of games, I could lean into using architecture to communicate motifs and moods - claustrophobic, lonely, or comforting. I would lean further into abstraction (the game takes from 2046 most of all) and visual metaphor, since I knew the game wouldn't be very dialogue heavy, and I don't consider myself much of a writer. This focus on metaphor and abstraction would aid the game visually, because the characters are represented through colour and brightness, with each character in the game being both physically present and emotionally unknowable. The simple visuals of the game would also mean that the blockmesh wouldn't necessarily take too much away from the game, being abstract as it is.

### Level Design
I wanted to hone in on level layouts, pacing and scripting, which were skills that I felt were lacking after my previous level design-focused projects. My previous projects often featured basic interiors, which would take a minute or two to complete. In contrast, The Space Between would focus almost entirely on interiors, allowing me to build more complex map layouts and longer levels - the linearity and greter focus on the script would help me more tightly direct the player experience. As I progressed further along into the project, I began to use a progress similar to a storyboard or shot list in order to pace out dialogue triggers, scripted sequences, exploration, and the visibility of the environment.

### Scripting
While previous projects' scripting rarely extended beyond dialogue triggers, I was interested to carry over my film editing experience into The Space Between, which uses Unreal Engine's sequencer for more complex scenes involving sound, loading and camerawork. Fortunately, Unreal Engine's sequencer is simple enough to use, and works for both interactive and non-interactive sequences. It was an interesting challenge to balance sequences that were interactive or not - for instance, the first sequence in the restaurant was initially non-interactive, but I removed it because it felt like the player would be travelling from cutscene to cutscene, where most of the storytelling is delivered through the interactive sequences between cutscenes. I was also limited by techinical and experience constraints, particularly around animation - this limitation drove my cutscenes further towards abstraction, and is why the initial breakup sequence is shown through lighting changes rather than animation and dialogue, as originally planned.

## Development
### Technology
I used Unreal Engine 5 for this project, which was mostly due to the Lumen featureset, and due to the preview update. In the past, using the World Partition features had produced corruption errors (for Metahuman and my Assassin's Creed project), so I was hesitant to use these features - I ended up using World Partition for the data layer featureset, which produced a few minor issues. Having faced these issues previously, I was able to largely avoid them for this project. I also used Supergrid assets for the bulk of the game, mostly to replace my previous BSP greyboxing process, which I found could be very volatile with UE5.

### Planning and Process
Each of my projects usually focuses around a different skillset or technology, which can be a huge potential time sink. I first outlined the most crucial failure points, as well as the quickest ways to test and overcome them - for this project, it was scripting AI, the narrative delivery methods (subtitles, world text and vocal text) and using the sequencer. With this in mind, I timeboxed a few days in order to assimilate the AI scripting I needed with the Advanced Locomotion System, and another few days to test out the prologue cutscene. By proving out the technology early, I would be able to understand the possibilities and limits of my game. In hindsight, using the Advanced Locomotion System might not have been the best choice - I used it because of the quality of the animation and features such as ragdolling and AI, but there were multiple technical issues that occured from merging it with AI, as well as controlling animations in the sequencer.

I also time-boxed the production of each level, aiming to prove out thematic concepts as quickly as possible, and then stitch them to earlier levels to test holistically. While these would often start on paper, I prefer to avoid too much paper prototyping for narrative-driven projects as I believe it can't test and develop emotional affect easily, and I find it easier to iterate and edit on spaces that have an established foundation.


## Insights
