# ATO Online
## A website used by over 10 million Australians.

## Introduction
As part of my work at the Australian Taxation Office as a full-time application developer, I have been able to work on the organisation's primary interface, known as ATO Online, doing development work on its single-page applications. This experience has given me much experience in developing for the web, as well as exposed me to many new topics. In addition to this, I am my team's UX champion, meaning I am the primary liason, designer, and UX evangelist for my team's features. I was able to use my experience in UX to push existing and new component patterns, while exploring and integrating UX throughout the organisation. I also take up the role of a systems analyst, which encompasses business analyst and testing analyst roles, and have pushed strongly for the adoption of agile, iterative, and efficient testing strategies and workflows, taking up a test QA-type role. Finally, in addition to these multiple roles, I am the team's shadow Scrum Master, and I have dilligently performed this role intermittently, taking the role full-time for around five weeks, or roughly three sprints. During this time, I was able to work with my team's Product Owner, pushing for consistent and effective delivery, while encouraging the development of culture and teamwork, and facilitating communication and collaboration within the team.

## Development

I worked on many of ATO Online's front-facing applications, such as Income Tax History, Agent Reports and Activity Statements, writing Javascript in the Durandal single-page application framework and unit tests using the Jasmine.js testing framework. I also conducted functional testing, which included accessibility, compatibility and regression tests. I also wrote automated regression tests in C# using the Selenium framework, as well as conducted data setup to mock the many specific scenarios for given features.  

At the ATO, I have worked as an interface designer, prototyping different scenarios in Sketch or XD. I found this a challenge, particularly since my skills are more geared towards user research and UX architecture; my experience in interface design was comparatively lesser.  

My largest piece of work involved helping lead the design in coordination with our business stakeholders and UX consultants on the conversion of an existing paper form into a digital form. While we were not able to do user testing, which is standard within the UX space, I was able to apply my knowledge to improve the information architecture and visual flow of the page, while keeping in mind the existing patterns that exist within the website. It was also one of the first instances where the interface was being designed in parallel with the development of the SPA (single-page application), meaning that I had to keep in tight communication with my team's developers, ensuring that the right decisions could be made, while keeping in mind team capcity, velocity, and estimations. This was also one of the first times where the team was able to work in a more agile process, by constantly improving an MVP, rather than build a page incrementally, as is often the case. Being in a position of being both UX and agile evangelists within the team, I was able to organise and improve our workflows to reduce dependencies while iterating on UX.

## Insights

At the ATO, my work is more than just development, testing or design; it is multidisciplinary, and I've had the opportunity to work within many new subject areas. As a User Experience degree is not heavily technology-focused, I have been able to polish and practice my development skills while learning to work and communicate in a large organisation spanning several offices and states. I have learnt many teamwork skills and have gained an understanding of not just how teams can work, but how organisations can work and grow in maturity. A major difference between university and the professional world was knowing and accepting that each team member is different and have their own expertise inside their domain - the challenging part is knowing how to make these disparate skills work together for a common goal, and knowing how to pave the path forward for each team member to flourish.
